---
layout: post
title: Chocolatey CLI (choco)
description: Setup / Install
date: 2022-06-11 12:30:00
hero_image: /img/sparqler_code.png
image: /img/Welding_sparkles.jpg
hero_height: is-large
hero_darken: true
---

# Requirements

* Windows 7+ / Windows Server 2003+
* PowerShell v2+ (Not PowerShell Core yet though)(minimum is v3 for install from this website due to TLS 1.2 requirement)
* .NET Framework 4+ (the installation will attempt to install .NET 4.0 if you do not have it installed)(minimum is 4.5 for install from this website due to TLS 1.2 requirement)


That's it! All you need is choco.exe (that you get from the installation scripts) and you are good to go! No Visual Studio required.

# Installing Chocolatey

Chocolatey installs in seconds. You are just a few steps from running choco right now!

1. First, ensure that you are using an administrative shell - you can also install as a non-admin, check out Non-Administrative Installation.
2. Copy the text specific to your command shell - cmd.exe or powershell.exe.
3. Paste the copied text into your shell and press Enter.
4. Wait a few seconds for the command to complete.
5. If you don't see any errors, you are ready to use Chocolatey! Type choco or choco -? now, or see Getting Started for usage instructions.



## Install with cmd.exe

Run the following command:

`@"%SystemRoot%\System32\WindowsPowerShell\v1.0\powershell.exe" -NoProfile -InputFormat None -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -Command "[System.Net.ServicePointManager]::SecurityProtocol = 3072; iex ((New-Object System.Net.WebClient).DownloadString('https://community.chocolatey.org/install.ps1'))" && SET "PATH=%PATH%;%ALLUSERSPROFILE%\chocolatey\bin"`

## Install with PowerShell.exe

With PowerShell, there is an additional step. You must ensure Get-ExecutionPolicy is not Restricted. We suggest using Bypass to bypass the policy to get things installed or AllSigned for quite a bit more security.

* Run `Get-ExecutionPolicy`. If it returns `Restricted`, then run `Set-ExecutionPolicy AllSigned` or `Set-ExecutionPolicy Bypass -Scope Process`.
* Now run the following command
:

`Set-ExecutionPolicy Bypass -Scope Process -Force; [System.Net.ServicePointManager]::SecurityProtocol = [System.Net.ServicePointManager]::SecurityProtocol -bor 3072; iex ((New-Object System.Net.WebClient).DownloadString('https://community.chocolatey.org/install.ps1'))`

